# Chloro-BuildSystem-ProjectManager-OpenSource
Chloro is a build system/ Project manager supports multiple languages with different variations. Chloro-cc is for C++ with powerfull and Simple to use interface.
Why Chloro was developed ?-> Chloro was developed to simplify a lot of hardwork, Eg compiling C++ complex projects.

## Variations
Chloro-cc : for C++

## Chloro-cc
**Chloro-cc** is a powerfull yet simple to use fully open source build-system/project manager to manage your C++ complex projects with a lot of ease.
**Chloro-cc** says "Focus on code and leave execution process on me" It automates a lot of the dirty things in your project , From creating a project to compiling a project.
**Chloro-cc** has two sides for Initaliser and for runtime.

### Initaliser
This is what chloro-cc is, It is used to create the projects in an specific directory and it not only creates your projects but also initalises them with runtime of chloro-cc . This is named as Chloro-cc
Structure
<pre>
  <code>
./project-name
    chloro-rt/
        chloro-runtime.cpp
    chloro-info
    cc/
        main.cc
        project-name.hpp
        README.md
        LICENSE
        CHANGELOGS.md
    bin/
        main
    configure-chloro-runtime.sh
    chloro-rt
  </code>
</pre>

How to use?
Simple as that download and compile the source code from given commands by scrolling this readme a little more and once placed what to do is use following commands with it.

--version                   : Shows the version of Chloro-cc <br>
--help                      : Shows the quick documentation of Chloro-cc in CLI <br>
--new [project name] [path] : Creates a new project with specified name and assigned path <br>

Create a project with --new command with chloro and it will create the project in the assigned directory example.
```bash
chloro --new myProject path:/to/project/
```


**What to do after project creation?**
Once, created a new project with Chloro-cc do the following things in project for the first time to ensure smooth execution.

### Configuring the Runtime
Once you have created a project with chloro-cc it automatically adds the chloro-cc-runtime source code into chloro directory of your project usually present in <code>project/chloro/</code>.
The runtime is stored as raw and you will need to configure it by compiling it perfectly so for configuration chloro-cc provides you a shell script for directly configuring the project and the shell script name is configure-chloro-runtime.sh usually located at <code>project/configure-chloro-runtime.sh.
Just fire this script inside your terminal but make sure that terminal must be open live where this script is present to avoid any conflicts or iissues with runtime later.
In case permission errors occure then try executing this command for giving the script permission to be executed.
```bash
chmod +x configure-chloro-runtime.sh
```
Once done simply execute the script by using the following command
```bash
./configure-chloro-runtime.sh
```
For more convience try using the following command directly
```bash
chmod +x configure-chloro-runtime.sh
./configure-chloro-runtime.sh
```
Once done you must see a file named chloro-rt created which stands for chloro-runtime.
In case any error occured for g++ not found like things then try installing gcc with g++ compiler this must fix your error but if still error occurs then you may be using wrong working directory please ensure that working directory is same as the script directory.

Congratulations you have successfully configured the runtime and now you are good to go.

### Executing the program
Now, by default your programs will be configured from cc directory which is located at <code>project/cc/</code> but you can certainly modify this setting in chloro-info file which is usually located in same directory of project or where chloro-rt maked after configuring the chloro-runtime , You must open and edit this file which has a custom key/value pair syntax used by chloro runtime to execute your programs.
Here's the default template which chloro-cc generates for you but feel free to use this when by mistakenly deleted the file's content:
```text
# This is the config file generated by chloro-cc for the chloro-runtime for this project please only modify settings according to the project don't rewrite this file unless you perfectly knew how to write this file
chloro-project-name=your-project-name
chloro-project-version=1.0
chloro-make-binary=false
chloro-main-file=cc/main.cc
chloro-project-compiler=gcc
chloro-output-binary=bin/main
# Uncomment the line bellow if also want to compile additional C++ files also
# chloro-compile=yourfile.cc,output-bin
# Uncomment the line bellow if want to parse any flaage during ccompilation
# chloro-compile-flags=your flags for compiler
```

Every single key needs a perfect value:-
Explanation of keys with respect of there values
1.) # -> This is a comment which is used with # symbol now it doesnot matters if a line has # anywhere then it's a comment and will be completly ignored by runtime's parser <br>
2.) chloro-project-name -> This is completly ignored by runtime's parser but usually a good practise to include in and defines the name of your project. <br>
3.) chloro-project-version -> This is another thing ignored by the runtime's parser but generally a good practise to include for defining version of your project. <br>
4.) chloro-make-binary -> This is a boolean key which only accepts true/false and tells runtime weather to make binary for project or not, This won't affect execution but decide weather main binary must be leaved after runtime ends up or not. If set to false then once the program is executed then the binary will be deleted but if not then it will exist. (This is only effective in linux based systems).
5.) chloro-main-file -> This tells the runtime about where the main file of project is present by default chloro makes and sets it to <code>cc/main.cc</code>.
6.) chloro-project-compiler -> This is a multiple value based key which accepts 'gcc/g++' or 'llvm/clang/clang++' and will set your compiler according to the defination.
7.) chloro-output-binary -> This will tell the runtime to where and what should be the name of output binary, By default bin/main (Note this will only affect binary generated from main file defined in file).
8.) chloro-compile -> This will tell chloro runtime to compile additional c++ file at same time of main in a batch, This takes two values where first is the c++ file name and second is the output file name from that file.
9.) chloro-compile-flags -> This will add the flags for compiler you selected and will only affect the compilation of main file.

Finally once you know how every key and values works then you are also ready to write this file. But don't worry this hardwork will be done automatically by chloro-cc and if deleted the runtime will also give you option to create a new file with templates.

Now once you are ready then execute the chloro-rt for executing your runtime , This will not only compile but run the program.

## Congratulations you have mastered chloro-cc

## Compiling chloro
Let's compile chloro-cc also for creating projects
Make sure that you has g++ or llvm installed. and working directory is same where chloro-cc source code of main.cpp is present
```bash
g++ main.cpp -o chloro
```

now you can use chloro with it's flags like --version, --help , --new

# Contributing?
This project is ready for contributions how to do is here.
fork -> edit -> pull request
that's it!

## Thank you for reading, Have a great time
